There are many classes of
motion planning algorithms and today we'll focus on one of these classes,
but it's worth mentioning the others.
Combinatorial methods usually consists in dividing the free space into
small pieces and first solving
the motion planning problem by connecting these atomic elements.
They are very intuitive ways to find initial approximate solution,
but they usually do not scale well for large environments.
Next, potential fields are reacting methods.
Each obstacle is going to create a sort of
anti-gravity field which makes it harder for the vehicle to come close to it.
For example, you could imagine using this idea around pedestrians or
bikes to encourage your planning algorithm to find trajectories that stay away from them.
The main problem with most potential field methods is that they sometimes
push us into local minima which can prevent us from finding a solution.
Optimal control consists in trying to solve
the motion planning problem and the controlling input generation in one algorithm.
Using a dynamic model of a vehicle or start configuration and end configuration,
we want to generate a sequence of inputs, for example, steering angle and throttle inputs, that
would lead us from start to end configuration while
optimizing a cost function relative to the control inputs such
as minimizing gas consumption and relative to the configuration of the car,
such as staying at a distance from other vehicles.
There are a lot of very nice ways to do that.
Most of them based on numerical optimization methods.
However, it is hard to incorporate all of the constraints related to
the other vehicles in a good enough way in order for these algorithms to work fast.
Finally, there are sampling based methods,
which are what we will focus on today.
These algorithms are very popular because they
require a somewhat easier to compute definition of the free space.
Sampling based methods use a collision detection module that probes
the free space to see if a configuration is in collision or not.
Unlike combinatorial or optimal control methods,
which analyzes the whole environment,
not all parts of the free space need to be explored in order to find a solution.
Explored parts are stored in a graph structure that
can be searched with a graph search algorithm like Dijkstra or A star.
Two main classes of methods can be identified as sampling based: discrete methods,
which rely on a finite set of configurations and/or inputs,
like a grid superposed on top of our configuration space,
and probabilistic methods, which rely on
the probabilistic sample of a continuous configuration space.
The set of possible configurations or states
that will be explored is potentially infinite,
which gives some of these methods the nice property that
they are probabilistically complete and sometimes
probabilistically optimal meaning that they will
always find a solution if you allow them enough computation time.
We have barely scratched the surface on
all the different sorts of planning algorithms that exist.
Far from me the idea to create an exhaustive list,
I strongly encourage you to look up some of
these algorithms and learn more about how they work.
Next, I'm going to present the Hybrid A* algorithm.
But before that, I suggest you re-watch a video you saw earlier on
A* and then answer a few questions about some of its properties.